README:
1. To run the script for detecting the optical flow using Lucas-Kanade method run the lk.py script in an IDE, the output of this script will be a video file named "output_lk_optical.mp4" which will be generated after all the frames have been finished processing and will be saved in the same location/directory where the script has been run.
2. To run the script for detecting optical flow using Gunnar-Farneback method run the test.py script in an IDE, the output of this script will be two things, first is a folder named "detected_frames_opticalflow" which will have all the images and the detected speeds of all the vehicles on each and every frame, the other output is a video file named "output_optical_flow.avi" which will be generated after all the frames have finished processing and will be saved in the same directory where the script is run. This is a video which basically combines all the frames stored in the folder generated as an output.
3. To run the script for checking the YOLO implementation for verification of the distance between the two lines (assumption) and the car counter, run the yolo.py script in an IDE. This script depends on code which is written in the tracker.py script and the tracker.py script cannot be executed. Ensure that the two scripts are in the same directory before running yolo.py. After running yolo.py, two outputs will be generated after all the frames have finished processing, one will be a folder named "detected_frames_yolo" which will have all the frames after processing from the input video with the counter and the lines visible on every frame. The other output will be a video named "output_yolo.avi" which will be saved in the same directory in which the script is being run. This will also combines all the frames generated in the output folder for yolo in a video.
Before running any of the above scripts please ensure that the input video named "highway.mp4" is present in the directory where the scripts are being run. Also for yolo ensure that the correct pretrained yolo models are present in the present working directory. Also install all the required packages such as matplotlib, cv2, numpy, pandas, time, os etc.


